README.md, before:

# CS203A – Data Structures

## Course Information
- **Course Title:** Data Structures  
- **Course Code:** CS203A  
- **Target Audience**: Undergraduate Students  
- **Duration**: 18 Weeks (including Midterm and Final exams)  
- **Semester:** 11401  
- **Credits:** 3  
- **Instructor:** Yu-Feng Huang
- **Teacher's Office hours:** 
    - Monday 14:00-16:00 (R1310)  
    - Wednesday 14:00–16:00 (R1310)  
- **Course Time(Classroom):** 
    - Monday 09:10–10:00 (R60104)
    - Tuesday 15:10–17:00 (R1102)  
- **Contact:** [Yan-Xi Lee](mailto:s1131538@mail.yzu.edu.tw)  

## Name/Student id
- **Name:** Lee Yan Xi
- **Student id:** 1131538

## Repository description
I use this repository to record the knowledge I have gained in this course, my learning journey, and even the challenges I have encountered, so that I can review everything anytime after the course ends.

## Repository content
### AssignmentIV: 

#### C
#### CXX
### Contents of Data Structures:

#### Array
#### Linked list
#### Stack and Queue
#### Hashing
#### Trees
#### Heaps
#### Graphs

Commit message:

Update README with study notes organization details
Added a note about using NotebookLM for organizing study notes.

README.md, after:

# CS203A – Data Structures

## Course Information
- **Course Title:** Data Structures  
- **Course Code:** CS203A  
- **Target Audience**: Undergraduate Students  
- **Duration**: 18 Weeks (including Midterm and Final exams)  
- **Semester:** 11401  
- **Credits:** 3  
- **Instructor:** Yu-Feng Huang
- **Teacher's Office hours:** 
    - Monday 14:00-16:00 (R1310)  
    - Wednesday 14:00–16:00 (R1310)  
- **Course Time(Classroom):** 
    - Monday 09:10–10:00 (R60104)
    - Tuesday 15:10–17:00 (R1102)  
- **Contact:** [Yan-Xi Lee](mailto:s1131538@mail.yzu.edu.tw)  

## Name/Student id
- **Name:** Lee Yan Xi
- **Student id:** 1131538

## Repository description
I use this repository to record the knowledge I have gained in this course, my learning journey, and even the challenges I have encountered, so that I can review everything anytime after the course ends.

## Repository content
### AssignmentIV: 

#### C
#### CXX
### Contents of Data Structures:
Based on teacher’s lecture notes, I used NotebookLM to help organize the knowledge from each unit, and after making my own revisions, I completed the study notes.
Including the following contents.
#### Array
#### Linked list
#### Stack and Queue
#### Hashing
#### Trees
#### Heaps
#### Graphs
